Module – 3 (Collections, functions and Modules)

Q-1.What is List? How will you reverse a list?

-->In programming, a list is a data structure that stores a collection of items, where each item has a specific position or index within the list. 
-->Lists are widely used because they are flexible and can contain elements of different data types

-->To reverse a list :-
1.By reverse method
2.By using slicing with a step parameter of -1 i.e (my_list[::-1])

Q-3.Differentiate between append () and extend () methods?

-->append():
1.The append() method is used to add a single element to the end of a list.
2.It takes one argument, which is the element to be added.
3.After appending, the length of the list increases by one.
4.If you want to add multiple elements to the list, you have to call append() for each element separately.

extend():
The extend() method is used to add multiple elements to the end of a list.
It takes an iterable (e.g., another list, tuple, or any other iterable) as its argument.
It iterates over the elements of the iterable and adds each element to the end of the list.
The length of the list increases by the number of elements in the iterable passed to extend()

Q-5.How will you compare two lists?
-->To compare two list:-
1.comparision operators is used.
2.sorted function.(it ignore the order)
3.Is to convert it into set and compare(it ignore the order)

Q-16.What is tuple? Difference between list and tuple.

-->Tuples are used to store multiple items in a single variable.
-->A tuple is a collection which is ordered and unchangeable.
-->Tuples are written with round brackets.
-->Tuple items are ordered, unchangeable, and allow duplicate values.
-->Tuples are defined as objects with the data type 'tuple'

LIST
1.Lists are mutable
2.The implication of iterations is Time-consuming	
3.The list is better for performing operations, such as insertion and deletion.
4.Lists consume more memory
5.Lists have several built-in methods
6.Unexpected changes and errors are more likely to occur

Tuple

1.Tuples are immutable
2.The implication of iterations is comparatively Faster
3.A Tuple data type is appropriate for accessing the elements
4.Tuple consumes less memory as compared to the list
5.Tuple does not have many built-in methods.
6.Because tuples don’t change they are far less error-prone.


Q-33.How Do You Check The Presence Of A Key In A Dictionary?
-->1.Using the in operator
-->2.Using the get() method

Q-49.How Many Basic Types Of Functions Are Available In Python?

-->In Python, there are three basic types of functions:
1.Built-in Functions
2.User-defined Functions
3.Anonymous Functions (Lambda Functions)

Q-50.How can you pick a random item from a list or tuple?
-->In Python, you can use the random. choice() function to pick a random item from a list or tuple. 

Q-51.How can you pick a random item from a range?

-->To pick a random item from a range in Python, you can first convert the range to a list and then use the random.choice() function to select a random item from that list.

Q-52.How can you get a random number in python?
-->In Python, you can generate random numbers using the random module

Q-53.How will you set the starting value in generating random numbers?
-->In Python, you can set the starting value (also known as the seed) for generating random numbers using the random. seed() function from the random module. 

Q-54.How will you randomizes the items of a list in place?
-->To randomize the items of a list in place, you can use the random.shuffle() function from the random module. 
